.TH MANDOR 1 "2026-07-18" "mandor" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mandor \- the foreman for your containers: a tiny PID-1 process supervisor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mandor
[\fIflags\fR] [--] \fI"CMD"\fR [\fI"CMD"\fR ...]
.br
.B mandor report
[\fINAME\fR|\fIPID\fR] [\fB--json\fR]
.br
.B mandor report --incidents
[\fINAME\fR] [\fB--since=\fIDUR\fR] [\fB--incident=\fIN\fR]
.br
.B mandor report --cost
[\fB--json\fR]
.br
.B mandor validate
[\fB--config=\fIPATH\fR]
.br
.B mandor
[\fB--help\fR | \fB--version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mandor
runs as PID 1 in a container, spawns worker processes, forwards signals,
reaps zombies, restarts what crashes, and\(emwhen a worker dies\(emwrites a
structured JSON incident bundle explaining what happened. It is a single
static binary (~230 KB), fully offline unless a network feature is configured.
.PP
Each \fICMD\fR is one worker: a quoted command line tokenized by mandor (no
shell required). Workers are named by the basename of their first token.
.SH COMMON FLAGS
.TP
.BR \-\-max\-restarts= N
Retries for a \fIfailed\fR worker: 0 (default) does not retry and lets the
failure end the run, \-1 retries forever. Clean exits are never retried.
.TP
.BR \-\-config= PATH
Load a mandor.toml (default: ./mandor.toml if present).
.TP
.BR \-\-metrics= PORT
Serve Prometheus text metrics on 127.0.0.1:PORT.
.TP
.BR \-\-state\-dir= PATH
State file and incident spool (or \fBMANDOR_STATE_DIR\fR).
.PP
These four flags are the whole command line. Every other setting \(em probes,
drain hooks, ordering, privilege drops, tuning \(em is a \fBmandor.toml\fR key,
documented in \fBdocs/CONFIG.md\fR. Keys keep the old flag name without the
dashes (\fB--stop-grace\fR became \fBstop_grace\fR).
.SH SIGNALS
TERM/INT start graceful shutdown (forwarded to worker process groups; a
second signal or \fB--stop-grace\fR expiry escalates to KILL). HUP, QUIT,
USR1, USR2, and WINCH are passed through to workers.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The failing worker's code once its retries are exhausted (this is the common
case: every worker is essential unless it sets \fBessential = false\fR), or the
oneshot worker's code when an init task fails; otherwise the worst worker exit
code (128+N for signal deaths), honoring \fB--expected-exit\fR. 2 for a
configuration or startup error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MANDOR_STATE_DIR
State and incident spool directory (default: /var/lib/mandor).
.TP
.B MANDOR_RELEASE ", " GIT_SHA
Release identifier recorded in incident bundles. When set, enables release
correlation: a crash that recurs after a code change is flagged
.B [REGRESSED]
in
.B mandor report --incidents
so you can tell whether the last fix held.
.TP
.B PHOTON_TOKEN
Bearer token for photon OTLP forwarding.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I <state-dir>/state.json
Live worker status (read by \fBmandor report\fR).
.TP
.I <state-dir>/incidents/*.json
Incident bundles (newest 200 retained).
.TP
.I <state-dir>/cost.json
Per-worker resource-cost profiles (see \fBmandor report --cost\fR).
.TP
.I /dev/termination-log
When present (Kubernetes), receives the latest incident verdict.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project home and full documentation: https://github.com/asyafalni/mandor
